=head1 NAME

B<cdecl> -- Translate C declarations to English

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<cdecl>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<cdecl> reads a C declaration from its input and translates it to English
terms which are sent as output.

This program was written following the recommendations and algorithm presented
by Peter van der Linden on his book "Expert C Programming - Deep C Secrets".
Writing this program was a programming challenge given in Chapter 3.

There have been many C<cdecl> versions written along history. This one in
particular -- although very simple -- has an easy to understand parsing algorithm
and is relatively complete. Recognized types include:

    void
    char
    short
    int
    long
    signed
    unsigned
    float
    double
    struct
    union
    enum

And the following language features:

=over 6

=item - I<Arrays>

Interpreted with or without any size.

=item - I<Functions>

Interpreted with arguments ignored.

=item - I<Qualifiers>

Both C<volatite> and C<const> (which is translated as I<readonly>)

=item - I<Pointers>

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Calling the program and writing the declaration followed by a new line will
produce, for example:

    $ cdecl
    int * const n
    n is readonly pointer to int

    $ cdecl
    char *f()
    f is function returning pointer to char

    $ cdecl
    long *(*(*x)[10])()
    x is pointer to array size 10 of pointer to function returning pointer to long

=head1 CAVEATS

Due to the way it is constructed, this version of C<cdecl> won't produce any
warning or error if bad syntax is encountered. There are no checks for invalid
constructs either, such as an array of functions.

The goal (as described in the book) was not to build a complete parser but
rather implement and practice an easy algorithm.

=head1 AUTHORS & HISTORY

This software and manual were written by Cesar Tessarin originally on July 5th
2011, rewritten partially and updated on Oct. 2017. However, all credit of the
internal algorithm and design goes to Peter van der Linden since (as stated
above) this was an exercise from his book:

B<Expert C Programming - Deep C Secrets>, 1st edition

Peter van der Linden
(C) 1994 Sun Microsystems, Inc.
ISBN:978-0-131-77429-2

=cut
